-Hey, Alison, it's Caramel Week.
-I know.
I love caramel so much.
I've written a little poem.
-[gasps]
-About caramel.
-[Noel] But it's a serious, deep poem.
-Okay.
So I need to get into
a special kind of place.
-Before you get into that place--
-I'm already in.
Can you come back out? Thank you.
I'm gonna give you a massive spoonful
of thick caramel.
Are you sure? It looks quite gloopy.
Go for it. It's a family favourite.
Mmm. Mmm! [mumbles indistinctly]
[through closed teeth] Caramel…
[mumbles indistinctly]
Oh, this is so moving.
-[mumbling]
-It's beautiful.
-I think what Noel's trying to say
is welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
-[mumbling]
-I have no idea what you're talking about.
[Noel] This time…
[mimicking drumroll]
…the bakers must conquer caramel…
Caramel is about bravery.
…in a biscuit-based signature…
Just can't get them out.
[Noel] …a tarte Tatin technical…
-I don't know what I'm doing, honestly.
-It's a hard one.
…and introduce a mousse
in a sticky showstopper.
Give me a hug. It's all right.
Who will have the sweet taste of success?
You've come on leaps and bounds
with your flavour.
-And who will come unstuck?
-Uh-oh.
[opening theme music playing]
[bright classical music playing]
-[indistinct conversation]
-[laughter]
We're back. Caramel Week this week.
Caramel can go wrong so easily.
It can split, burn, it can crystallise.
We'll see after the end of the weekend
if I wanna make caramel again.
Game is on, fight is on, and I'm ready.
I'm ready.
Hello, bakers, welcome back to the tent.
It's Caramel Week.
For your Caramel Week signature,
Paul and Prue would love you to bake
a batch of caramel biscuits.
[Noel] Your caramel biscuits
can take inspiration
from a caramel classic
like the millionaire's shortbread.
Or in Dutch, a snoop waffle.
Think it's a stroopwafel.
It's not named after Snoop Dogg.
-[Alison] Oh.
-[laughter]
You need to make 12 delicious biscuits
either sandwiched or topped
with set caramel.
You have two and a half hours.
-[Noel] On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake!
[bright classical music playing]
I love caramel biscuits.
Don't make them often.
I don't really have caramel biscuits.
I normally never have biscuits, really,
unless I'm at my grandma's.
It's Caramel Week,
but incorporating caramel into a biscuit,
they've got to choose their biscuit.
We've got some mixed spice,
some cinnamon and some nutmeg
that'll go in the shortbread.
It can be any kind of biscuit
but the dominant flavour must be caramel.
Literally get everything ready,
then onto the hot molten sugar.
So, then the fun begins.
[Paul] You need to take caramel
so it's a rich colour.
Almost the colour of my skin.
The caramel must set,
but not as hard as rock
and it mustn't flow out of the biscuit.
If you can't pick it up,
that's more like a pudding.
[Prue] They need to be
elegant and exquisite.
There should be nothing clumsy about it.
[bright classical music playing]
-[Paul] Morning, Christiaan.
-Good morning. Hello.
Tell us all about your caramel biscuit.
-So I'm making stroopwafels. [laughs]
-Stroopwafels.
My own twist on a traditional stroopwafel.
I am adding a layer of a spicy nut praline
in the middle as well.
-The biscuit'll be made in a waffle iron.
-[Alison] Wow.
[Noel] Within his waffles,
Christiaan will be sandwiching
his spicy nut praline
with a caramel made with Dutch stroop.
-Stroop just means syrup, doesn't it?
-It basically is, yeah.
-A little taste of home for you today.
-Yeah. Hope I can nail it.
-Good luck. Thank you.
-[laughs] Thank you so much, guys.
[Alison] Also doing a twist on a treat
from their homeland…
It's pagáče, it's from home,
from Slovakia, from children time.
…is Nelly.
My father used to make me a caramel,
chop fresh walnut, then make it.
I just add a little bit chocolate biscuit
to it and it's done.
[Alison] Putting her own spin
on her dad's delicacy,
Nelly will be encasing salted caramel
inside chocolate and walnut biscuits.
That's my biscuit dough.
Do not touch, do not destroy.
[Noel] How dare you?
I'm like a delicate cat. [laughs]
I'm not gonna destroy anything.
-You know who might destroy this? Alison.
-You're right.
-She's like an enthusiastic Labrador.
-[laughs]
Just need this to cool now.
[Noel] While their biscuit dough rests,
there's no respite for the bakers.
I'm just getting my lime cream together.
[Alison] As they need to work quickly
to get all their elements cooled and set.
[Christiaan] There's my nuts.
[Alison] Or they risk caramel layers
that won't hold their shape.
I'm making a mango-lime ganache
and sesame sablé biscuit.
Hopefully the flavours balance out nicely,
not too sweet.
[Alison] Sumayah's planning to counter
the sweetness even further
with a caramel
flavoured with hibiscus tea.
-Wow.
-[Prue] My goodness.
It has like a really acidic flavour.
-It's not a sweet caramel.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-It's almost like a candy.
-I love the sound of it.
I'm glad, 'cause it's a bit
of a random combination.
[Paul chuckles]
[Noel] Whichever additional flavours
the bakers are adding…
Raisin, cinnamon, your kind of
aromatic spices work really well with it.
[Alison] …it's crucial
they complement their caramel.
I've gone for like a 54% cocoa
just so it's just that happy sweet medium.
So it's like a biscuit
that you might find in a shop.
Normally, you'd get 'em in two fingers.
-Yeah.
-But this will be one finger.
-It's chunky just like me.
-[Alison and Prue laugh]
-I love the idea, we know it works.
-Hazelnuts.
-You gotta get that finish looking good.
-Yeah.
[Alison] To successfully replicate
his chosen chocolate bar,
Andy will be hoping his chocolate
balances perfectly
with hazelnut praline and caramel.
-How are you?
-Not too bad. Thank you, sir.
-One question, how are you still here?
-Dunno.
-You were worried last week.
-Yeah.
-Think you can get in the final?
-No.
Me neither. We'll go together.
What you doing?
-I'm trying to temper the chocolate.
-Willy Wonka town.
People call me a Willy Wonka.
-Do they?
-I think it's Wonka they call me.
[both laugh]
We're going out on that.
I'm not gonna beat that.
[both laugh]
[Noel] And it's not just Andy
basing his bake on a chocolate classic.
My biscuits are based on my favourite
chocolate and peanut bar.
They were my favourite growing up.
I used to eat like five in a row.
[Noel] Georgie will be
combining peanut butter,
nougat and shortbread
with a chopped peanut caramel
in an attempt to capture the flavour
of a childhood favourite.
-They're moreish though.
-Yeah.
Oh, my gosh.
I need to get that level of peanut right
because we know what they are.
But I'm feeling you've got this.
-I hope so, Alison.
-You have.
[Andy] Let's get this in the fridge.
[Alison] As various elements
are going in to set…
[Georgie] I prefer chocolate to temper
in room temperature
but probably will have to go
in the fridge.
[Alison] …various doughs
are coming out for baking.
[Christiaan] You basically put a little
ball in and bake it for about a minute.
[Illiyin] All going in the oven.
-So that's going in for 20 minutes at 180.
-[timer beeping]
[Andy] Right,
I need to get onto the caramel.
That's the big element.
[Noel] Whether the bakers make
a dry caramel or choose to add water…
[Gill] Some will make 'em wet, some dry.
This is dry, but it's easier to burn
because you've not got water.
[Noel] …they will need to display patience
until the time is just right.
Caramel is about bravery.
If you stop it too early,
you don't get the caramel flavour,
'cause as you heat it,
it builds different compounds.
If you take it too far, you burn it.
[Alison] And any stirring or whisking
can cause it to crystallise
which means starting all over again.
[Christiaan] You do
definitely have to watch it.
It's starting to bubble now
but not all the sugar's dissolved.
[Alison] So allowing it
to reach the perfect colour…
It's holding your nerve
to get it to that stage.
Because it can quite easily,
within 30 seconds, burn.
…is the only way to achieve
the distinctive flavour.
Normally you rely on colour,
but 'cause my caramel's bright pink,
I have to take the temperature.
120 is good 'cause I want
the hibiscus to come through.
[Noel] It's not just Sumayah
adding ambitious flavours…
[Dylan] I'm making a pineapple caramel.
[Noel] …as reigning Star Baker
Dylan is giving his a citrus kick.
[Dylan] I've got this really fancy
pineapple juice.
Like on the back it says,
"Enjoy a moment to savour my creation."
So I trust that. That sounds pretty good.
[Alison] Dylan's pineapple caramel
will sit inside an oat biscuit casing
which will be topped
with lime cream and a tuile
in an attempt to impress the judges.
-More intimidated of Prue than Paul.
-Are you?
-Yeah, 100%.
-That's interesting.
She's the only Michelin star chef
I've met.
She told me a funny story about that.
When they didn't get a star
and thought they should've,
she rang them up,
"Why didn't you give me a star?"
And they said something like,
"Your bread wasn't up to scratch."
And that's how she met Paul. [laughs]
Do you know what?
It'd be so beautiful if it was Paul.
-But he probably wasn't born.
-[both laugh]
Happy with it. Take it off the heat.
Starting to get there now, that's good.
I'll add the cream in there.
[Alison] But not all the bakers
are as content with their caramel.
I'm not sure about this.
Kind of lost all of the moisture.
I made a rookie mistake
of stirring it a little at the beginning.
[Alison] And Illiyin needs her caramel
to be the centrepiece
of a well-loved classic.
I'm doing like Florentine rounds,
but I don't know if I'm gonna use this.
[Noel] Illiyin will be mixing her caramel
with a Florentine filling of sultanas,
candied orange peel and almonds,
provided she can get her caramel right.
Sacked the other one.
I'll make a dry caramel.
I tried. I can say I tried.
But better the devil you know.
Hopefully it works.
[Noel] And Illiyin may not be
the only baker back to square one.
[Nelly] Suddenly make lumpy,
I don't know why.
I'm not happy. I think I'll do it again.
I can't leave it. Backup plan, eat it.
But I'm going to do a new one.
So, let's do it again.
[Alison] My darling bakers,
you are halfway through.
-This recurring nightmare.
-[laughs]
I had a nightmare
I was in, er, in Bake Off the other day.
-You are.
-[laughs]
-That wasn't a nightmare.
-Good dream or bad?
I love Dylan's laugh.
He's like the best, isn't he?
[Nelly] I'm getting them out.
Got them out just in time. [laughs]
Well, they're overbaked.
Not how I would like them to be.
But if I make them again now,
it will never set in time.
I want it to be firm
so it holds itself together
underneath the caramel.
[Alison] Mike's orange zest biscuits
will form the base of a chocolate orange
millionaire's shortbread.
Decorated with lilac flowers
for a taste of home.
[Mike] Flowers from the farm.
I picked them yesterday on the way here.
They're my dad's favourites.
We always, always make them on the farm.
[Noel] And it's also due
to parental preference
that Gill is making her adaption
of the same rich bake.
[Gill] So it's Brazil nut and raisin
for my mum's favourite caramels
and toffees that she liked.
We bought it every Mother's Day.
This is for her.
[Alison] Gill's millionaire shortbread
will see syrupy milk chocolate
topping a caramel of raisins
and Brazil nuts, as a tribute to her mum.
[Paul] I love the sound of this.
-[nuts cracking]
-[giggles]
My mother's favourite nut was Brazil nut.
-That was my mum's favourite as well.
-[laughs]
-It's my favourite.
-Is it?
-Mums and one old dad.
-[laughs]
Dry caramel's working fine,
so I just need it to finish melting
completely, and then mix it in.
[Nelly] This one is better, better.
Look at this.
This the sort of stuff you like doing?
Every day I just wake up in the morning,
"Let me do some caramel"
and flapping around.
-[laughs]
-I have such a passion. I hate it.
-[Alison] Those look wonderful.
-Thanks.
How do you get the caramel inside then?
-Cut 'em in two.
-Put the caramel inside.
Put it in between and you sandwich them.
-That's it.
-You are killing it.
Not only do you look good,
your food looks good.
It tastes good.
-Most important, isn't it? [laughs]
-Killing it.
[Mike] So I'm just about
to start pouring my caramel
-onto my… those baked biscuits.
-[clangs]
Bakers, you only have 30 minutes left.
[Andy] I need to motor now.
[Illiyin] The Florentine should be
double the amount of biscuit.
[Christiaan] I'm sandwiching
them together.
[Sumayah] My caramel has air bubbles
for some reason.
[Georgie] I don't want it overfull,
or it'll be messy when you add the top on.
-Look at this. Jackson Pollock.
-It really is.
Game changer.
You gonna be the game changer of baking?
Hmm, I dunno. They look a bit Pollocks.
[both laughing]
They need to go in the fridge.
I'm gonna put it in the freezer
because I want ten minutes
at least to get them all out.
I'll leave them in there for a minute.
It'll be fine.
But… [chuckles]
It's just like… [mock screams]
[tense music playing]
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
I wanna wait till as late as possible.
[Georgie] I need to get them out
and decorate them.
I hope they're tidy.
[Andy groans] Oh, I need 'em out.
Oh, God. I've overchilled
and I can't get them out of the tins.
[Georgie] Oh, no. They're cracking.
Just can't get them out.
This is gonna be a nightmare.
The cream looks so ugly
because of the lime juice added.
[Gill] They're trying to escape
but it's there.
There we go. That'll do.
That's enough, isn't it? [laughs]
[Illiyin] I'm adding
some dark chocolate lines.
[Nelly] Concentrate, concentrate.
[Georgie] All cracking. I'm gutted.
[sighs] I really am gutted with these.
[Sumayah] Air bubble.
[Mike] I'm so, so grateful,
you have no idea.
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
Are you serious? Have I got enough?
[tense music continues playing]
Like UFOs. [laughs]
Have to just use the broken ones. [sighs]
It's not good.
[Andy] Nice finish.
-It's okay.
-One left.
One left.
Bakers, your time…
[sighs] Oh, my God.
[Noel] …is…
-up.
-[Mike gasps] Did we do it?
[Noel] Please step away
from your caramel creations.
-Come here, you.
-[Mike] Thank you so much.
-[both laughing]
-Oh, my gosh.
-[exhales] Done.
-[Mike] Thank you.
-You'd do the same for me.
-I would.
-I'll never have time but…
-[both laugh]
[bright, whimsical music playing]
[Noel] It's judgement time
for the bakers' caramel biscuits.
-Hi, Mike.
-Hello, hello.
[Paul] They look nice on top.
I don't like the bulging on the side.
They should be nice and neat.
[Mike] I actually overchilled it a bit
and couldn't get them out of the tin.
The caramel's got a lovely orange flavour
and the chocolate is nice.
I just think the shortbread
could've been thinner and crispier.
-Yeah.
-And that would've set it off then.
It could be a bit crisper,
but it tastes lovely.
Thank you very much.
[Prue] Just work on your bulge.
[bright, whimsical music continues]
I think they look really attractive.
I would find it impossible
not to buy those.
Thank you.
Your thin layer of praline
takes away from too much caramel
and you've got the waffles
really crisp. Beautiful.
It's a good eat. The flavour of
the praline with the caramel is delicious.
-Well done.
-Thank you very much.
-Thank you.
-Well done.
[bright classical music playing]
-I think they look exquisite.
-Thank you.
[Paul] They do look very, very good.
I love the Florentine.
The candied orange tastes really lovely.
You do get that sensation of a Florentine.
[Prue] You've made a original biscuit.
The flavours are fantastic.
-A little triumph.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Well done.
[bright classical music playing]
Amazing-looking, aren't they?
They look like Star Trek creatures.
-[Paul laughs] Yeah.
-Just like me. [laughs]
-[Prue] I want to taste it.
-Oh, no. Doesn't look good.
Not sure what it is.
-Texture's a bit too stodgy for me.
-[Nelly] Okay.
Quite hard work.
-But the walnut flavour is fantastic.
-Thank you.
[whimsical music playing]
[Paul] It's a good finish.
They look really good.
I like the flavour.
Hazelnut comes through nicely.
And actually the choice
of chocolate's clever
'cause it balances beautifully
with the inside which is full of texture.
It is. Good flavour.
My mouth's still watering, it wants more.
-[laughs]
-[Paul] Fantastic.
Thank you, sir. Cheers. Thank you.
Well done.
Wow, blimey. [exhales]
[bright classical music playing]
[Paul] Fascinating. Like a little canapé.
Oh, my goodness. It's so crumbly.
And it's delicious.
Yeah, thanks.
Love the flavours.
It's the citrus kick
just lightens it all up too.
It's quite moreish actually.
You wanna go back for more.
Flavour and texture-wise, you're spot on.
Just the overall look.
It's like a UFO convention.
[laughs]
[gentle classical music playing]
Pretty. Sort of thing
you'd see in a bakery.
They could've done with half that.
-Northern portions again, Paul.
-Er, granted.
[Prue] Certainly unusual.
And I do like it.
Mm. There's a slight bitterness
to the caramel
and that with the fruit and nut,
yeah, I like that.
As a millionaire's shortbread
it's a borderline
billionaire's shortbread.
-[gasps]
-[Prue laughs]
[gentle classical music playing]
[Paul] Not really set, the caramel.
-I don't know what happened.
-More like a jam. I like their look.
I think they're very elegant
and very exotic.
The mango is there.
Not strong but it's there.
The hibiscus gives
a little bit of tartness to it.
The flavours are amazing in your mouth.
It's just something went wrong
with the caramel. It's too soft.
Yeah.
[bright classical music playing]
Struggled getting them out of the moulds.
-You've lost a few, haven't you?
-[Georgie] Yeah.
[Prue] Well, the ones that did get out
are neat and nice.
So precise and elegant.
And you know what?
I don't like peanut butter,
but that is delicious.
Oh, thank you.
[Paul] They're beautiful.
The chocolate balanced with the peanut,
the nougat running through it.
It's a lovely caramel biscuit.
I can't do it because, er…
-Oh, Paul.
-You've wrecked a few here.
-Second time you've done that to me now.
-[both laugh]
Very good. Very clever.
-Well done.
-Thank you.
I can't believe he did that again,
with the,
"I was gonna give you a handshake,"
but he could not with those three,
but just knowing that it was that good
is enough for me.
[Mike] Paul thought the shortbread
could've been crisper,
so I was like, "That's fine."
Definitely wasn't overbaked,
but they didn't like my bulge,
which is a bit of a personal comment,
but you know. [laughs]
My caramel just turned to liquid
for some reason.
I feel like this is the first time
I really need to do well
in the other challenges if I wanna stay.
[bee buzzing]
[gentle classical music playing]
[Alison] The bakers were able
to practice their biscuits
but the technical is
a complete caramel mystery.
Hello, bakers. Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your technical challenge.
"Who set that technical challenge?"
I hear you say.
Well, to quote Spandau Ballet,
"I know this much is Prue."
[laughter]
Prue, have you got any words of advice
for our bakers?
This challenge is all about
timing and temperature.
As ever, this challenge
will be judged blind,
so we'll have to ask these two
to leave the tent.
Prue Leith would love you
to make a pear tarte Tatin.
Now the judges are looking
for a crisp, flaky rough puff pastry
with a perfectly caramelised pear topping.
They would also love you to make
a caramelised walnut ice cream
to go alongside.
[Alison] You have three hours.
-[Noel] On your marks.
-Get set.
Bake.
Oh, bloody hell.
Good luck. Salt over the shoulder.
Every word they said, I was like,
oh, God, it was getting worse.
Pear, walnuts, tarte Tatin, ice cream.
[birds chirping]
-Pear tarte Tatin.
-It is Caramel Week.
So we've got the bakers
making caramel twice
for the tarte Tatin
and a walnut caramel ice cream.
-What a marriage that is.
-It's a cheat's puff pastry.
The whole point in any puff pastry
is getting the lamination right,
so they have to get on with it.
We've given them frozen butter
but if they let it sit on the side,
by the time they roll and fold it,
it'll melt.
-It'll just turn into a shortcrust.
-Yes.
Arrange the pears beautifully
and then they need to bake it
until the pastry is
a good proper dark colour.
Prue, would you like a slice?
-I would.
-Help yourself to a blob of ice cream.
Wow. Pear's beautifully cooked,
the lamination and flake
in that pastry is delicious.
The caramelisation is perfect.
It's not overdone, not bitter.
Almost toffee-like. It's delicious.
Just need a glass of Armagnac
to go with it.
-Can we get some Armagnac, please?
-[laughs]
Here we go. For the ice cream,
make a smooth crème anglaise.
I don't know these posh names, you know?
For me, it is a custard.
So I'm gonna heat up my milk and my cream
and then I'm peeling pears.
Hello.
How many tarte ta-ta-tatas
are there in tarte ta-ta-Tatin?
I literally looked up Tatin last night.
[Noel] Is that what you lot do?
-Guess what the technical might be?
-I try.
I dunno why you lot listen to him.
Paul's not a baker.
-No.
-He's a plumber.
[Noel, Georgie, Andy laugh]
I've scalded the cream and milk
with the vanilla.
Putting it over the eggs and sugar.
You don't want it thick.
Oh, God.
I have split the custard.
I'm gonna sieve it again.
I think we're there.
"Pour the cold crème anglaise
into the machine and churn to ice cream."
The ice cream is on. It's churning.
[Mike] I might start making my rough puff.
Old-fashioned way,
rub the butter into the flour.
There's two quantities of butter.
One to incorporate into the actual dough
and the other one is in between the layers
to laminate it roughly.
The butter melts
and it creates these air pockets
and as soon as it hits a hot oven, poof!
-What's going on? Oh, the rough puff?
-Can't be bothered with this.
It's a hard one.
It's a lot of time though.
I got lots of time.
I'm gonna dance probably, you know?
-You wanna dance?
-I'm gonna dance.
Dirty dancing?
You lift me up or I lift you up?
-[laughs]
-I'll do you.
-[Nelly] No.
-Let me just get used to it.
[Nelly] Health and safety.
Go.
-[Nelly laughs]
-[Alison] Oh. [laughs]
[Alison] I just want a hug. [laughs]
So I'll start the first roll.
Keep the butter as cold as you can.
Need cold hands.
You don't wanna get that butter warm
because it'll turn into a briochey dough.
My butter is definitely no longer frozen.
It's becoming smeared.
Go in the fridge
and then we'll do another later.
[Illiyin] Okay. I'll make the praline.
It's a dry caramel.
Getting colour,
but I want the sugar to melt.
I need to make sure I don't burn this.
[Andy] That's caramelising lovely.
It's hard, innit, caramel?
Oh, always a bit tricky.
How'd you know when it's done?
Doing this by eye, aren't you?
It looks like a golden colour.
Science, isn't it?
I mean, it is, yeah.
It's gone dark, but it'll have to do.
We'll add the walnuts to the caramel.
[Sumayah] It needs to solidify.
[Dylan] Right. This is done.
[birds chirping]
-Made you a cup of tea.
-Thank you.
-Baked this biscuit for you.
-So kind.
It's a little bit overproved.
[laughs]
Bakers, you are halfway through.
What?
So I'm gonna go back to my pastry.
Do another turn of my rough puff.
[Gill] Last turn.
Oh. That's nice.
"Just before the ice cream's firm,
add the walnut praline."
So I've left some bits really chunky.
Ice cream's all right.
It needs to go in the freezer now.
[Sumayah] Okay, and now I'm starting
the caramel for my pears.
[Gill] We're back to the hot sugar.
It is Caramel Week.
Who would've thought it?
The colour is going okay. Keep it moving.
[Illiyin] Is that too much?
Let's see if I can recover it.
[Nelly] Now I put it too low.
Once this caramel is ready,
it says, "Add the pear halves".
We get these pears in. Lovely jubbly.
Get those nice and soft. Look at that.
[Gill] Now it's just gone too far now.
Scares me to death this stuff.
Got a bit of molasses in here.
More flavour, you know what I mean?
[birds chirping]
Bakers, you have half an hour left.
Uh-oh.
We're about there with them pears.
"Carefully pour some caramel
out of the pan into a heatproof jug."
"Decoratively arrange pears
cut side up in the pan."
I've just decided to do like
kind of a flower shape, I suppose.
[Sumayah] Then add the pastry.
The question is
what's that pastry gonna be like?
If it's gonna puff up.
It's gonna be a surprise.
[Andy] I'm going in. This is it.
[Illiyin] Might be a bit short.
[Georgie] It's in.
-[Andy] All right.
-I'm gonna do 20 minutes.
I hope the amount of time we have left
is about the amount of time
it takes to cook a pear tarte Tatin.
There's nothing else I can do now.
So we must gather round and pray.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes left.
Thanks, Alison.
[Andy] Just wanna keep
me old caramel on the go.
I'm trying to keep it warm
and failing miserably.
-This is leftovers?
-Yeah.
We could throw this at someone.
See if you can get it in the hat.
Oh, bingo.
Boom.
-Boom. Bar-as-a-bam-- [gasps]
-[glass clinks]
-[glass shatters]
-[all exclaim]
-You didn't need that.
-I did.
Oh, my God.
Ah.
Have we got time to make some more?
-Yes, we do.
-Right. I'll get a broom.
[Nelly] It's all good.
If I gonna go home,
he will drive me home in posh car.
[birds chirping]
[vacuum whirring]
[mouthing]
[Georgie] Leaving it in
as long as possible.
I see some layers, so thank God.
Bakers, you've got five minutes left.
Okay, right, I'm gonna come out now.
I am gay. [laughs]
[sighs]
One, two, three.
Heard a thud.
[mimicking drumroll]
[Georgie] Come on.
Perfect.
Don't think it's baked enough.
Might be a little bit dark.
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
Finally, pour over the remaining caramel.
[Nelly] I make new sauce.
Mine feels a little dark.
Pastry came off. Oh, well.
I'm pleased with this.
[in Italian accent] Ice cream.
[Andy] Three balls.
[Dylan] Give it the good old scoop.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please bring your pear tarte Tatins
down to the front
and place them behind your photographs
on the gingham table.
[Georgie] Well done.
[Mike] I feel sick.
[dramatic music playing]
[Noel] Prue and Paul are
looking for a tarte Tatin
that has beautifully crisp
and laminated pastry,
perfectly caramelised pears
alongside a smooth
caramel walnut ice cream.
And they have no idea whose is whose.
[Paul] Start with this.
Got molasses all over it.
But I must say the pears
are nicely arranged.
[Paul] Not much flake in there.
Pastry's lost its lamination.
The caramel's just gone too far. Burnt.
Ice cream's okay. A lovely flavour.
-[Prue] Next one.
-[Paul] A nicer colour.
[Prue] You see the lamination.
-It could've been longer in the oven.
-[Paul] Hmm.
[Prue] Creamy ice cream.
-[Paul] Nice and creamy.
-[Prue] Pretty good.
-This looks too dark again.
-[Paul] Very dark.
A bit of lamination on there.
It's burnt. You can taste it.
-The caramel went too far on both of them.
-[Paul] On both. Yeah, for sure.
Moving on. This looks pale.
But I like the way the fanning
of the pears have been done.
Good lamination.
[Prue] Mm.
Not much taste of caramel.
It wasn't taken far enough.
-Ironically, it's all in the ice cream.
-Ice cream's lovely.
[Paul] I like the colour of this one,
but is it too much?
[Prue] A bit of lamination
but it's not the best.
[Paul] No. Like a shortcrust.
Not sure about that.
Not getting great flavours.
Moving on. This looks quite doughy.
If it had a bit longer
perhaps in the oven for this.
[Prue] Caramel needs to be bit darker.
Pastry needs another five minutes.
But it's very pleasant.
[Paul] Good ice cream.
This looks a nice colour
and the pastry looks nice and crisp.
I love the way…
It's been put to bed properly.
-[Prue] Yes.
-[Paul] Lamination on the side.
-Hmm.
-[Prue] Both flavours are great.
And it's very nice ice cream.
Very good flavour.
-This looks nice.
-[Paul] I like this.
-Don't mind it catching.
-[Prue] Don't mind at all.
Hmm. Yeah.
[Paul] It's got a lovely flavour.
A lovely caramel flavour.
That's lovely as well.
It's nice and creamy.
[Prue] This is quite a success this one.
-[Paul] Quite nice.
-[Prue] Lovely.
[Paul] This looks a bit pale.
[Prue] Very pale.
-Really doughy middle.
-[Paul] Hmm.
Yeah.
Definitely underbaked. The caramel
flavour's not bad, but it's underbaked.
[Prue] I like the ice cream.
[Alison] Prue and Paul will rank
the tartes from bottom up.
In ninth place, we have this one.
Andy, both the caramels went too far.
So they're a bit bitter and overbaked.
In eighth, we have this one.
Whose is this?
Gill. [sighs] It's too bitter.
Far too bitter and too thin.
And then in seventh place,
we've got this one.
Mike, it's underbaked.
Yeah.
[Noel] Nelly is sixth.
Dylan is fifth.
And Illiyin is fourth.
Third place, we have this one.
This is a really
nicely arranged tarte Tatin.
-Sumayah, it looks so appetising.
-Thank you.
In second spot…
this one.
Christiaan, you had the caramel balance
perfect with the ice cream
and a pretty good tarte Tatin. Well done.
So this means that, Georgie,
you're the winner.
[cheering]
A really good day. I just really hope
it goes into tomorrow as well.
Really do.
Seventh isn't great, is it?
It's not bottom,
but the people that were lower than me
had really, really great signatures.
Disappointed in all honesty.
If I can turn it out tomorrow,
hopefully that'll be enough.
[birds chirping]
[indistinct chatter]
Caramel Week. My favourite.
Paul, you were dipped in caramel at birth.
-What do you…
-[laughter]
How do you think it went?
The technical challenge wasn't good.
Most of them took the sugar too far,
so it was almost black.
But one or two didn't take
the caramel far enough.
So who needs
to be worrying a little bit now?
-Look over the two challenges.
-Yeah.
[Paul] I think Mike's in trouble,
and Nelly.
Looking on the other side of the coin,
the people in line for Star Baker,
Dylan's done well again.
Georgie's done well,
and Christiaan's done well.
It could change after the showstopper.
With Caramel Week,
they've got to concentrate
to get a rich golden brown, not black.
-Like your hands.
-Yeah.
If it gets to my level of brown…
-It's too far.
-…it's gone.
And this is meringue.
That ridiculous.
[all laughing]
[tense music playing]
Welcome back to the tent, bakers,
for your showstopper challenge.
Now there are many kinds
of mousse in the world.
-Hair mousse.
-Mickey Mousse.
There's Mousse T,
who recorded "Sex Bomb" with Tom Jones.
My favourite mousse.
But the mousse that the judges
would like you to concentrate on today
is a caramel mousse cake.
Now your caramel mousse cake
must be complete
with spectacular sugarwork decoration.
It must have at least
two caramel-based components.
You've got four and a half hours for this.
Which seems too long but that's fine,
I'll have some Zs in my coffin.
On your marks.
-Get set.
-Bake.
[bright classical music playing]
Okay. Right, let's go.
I don't really like mousse cakes.
It seems fancy on the outside,
but it's not all that. [laughs]
I can make a really good one at home.
Who knows what the curse of the tent
will do to me today?
Today's showstopper challenge
is a celebration of caramel.
But we want a baked element
and that comes in the form of,
realistically, a sponge.
I think with a mousse cake,
you want a light sponge, not stodgy.
I love making a chiffon.
It's a really, light, lovely sponge.
[Prue] And the mousse part
is the tricky bit
because we want it
really light and moussey,
but stiff enough to keep its shape
and in no way to be rubbery or solid.
The introduction of caramel to a mousse,
you want a strong colour on that caramel
to be able to produce the flavour
inside the mousse.
That's what we want.
It melts in the mouth.
[Nelly] This is out of my comfort zone.
But, you know, we'll see the end result.
Decoration is key
and we're asking for sugarwork,
so, caramelising it, spinning it
and creating a beautiful design on top.
I want to see something
I've never seen before
and that tastes absolutely divine.
[Alison] With sponge ingredients mixing…
I'm gonna make the caramel
for the caramel mousse.
…in order for the bakers to mix
their mousse with caramel…
[Mike] This needs to cool
before adding cream.
…it's straight to the main event.
[Georgie] There's so much in this.
-[Paul] Morning.
-Hello.
Someone won the technical.
And they nearly got a handshake.
Yeah, the disappearing handshake. Whoo!
Could be your week.
-Are we going to have perfection today?
-I hope so.
I'm making chocolate cake,
a hazelnut praline. Is it feuilletine?
-Feuilletine.
-With that. [laughs]
And then a salted caramel mousse
around the side.
Wow.
[Noel] Georgie's salted caramel mousse
will surround her sweet layers
and be topped
with a white chocolate mirror glaze
sprouting an isomalt rose.
This sounds great.
Your recipe is about balance
and how sweet it'll be.
You have salted caramel,
-so that'll dull it down.
-Yeah.
You could get Star Baker with a good one.
-We'll see.
-Not thinking about it.
For yesterday…
-You, you… No.
-[Paul] No.
[laughs]
-Joking.
-Oh, you're so mean.
-Never trust him.
-[Georgie] No.
[Paul] Good luck for today.
-Good luck.
-[Georgie] Thank you.
[Alison] While Georgie opts
for a single rose…
I've been wanting to bring a tree
into a bake at some point in my life.
…Andy's cake will be in full bloom.
We'll have a tree in the middle
finished with candyfloss as the branches.
-Lovely.
-It's apple-flavoured candyfloss.
-A bit of fun. My daughter loves it.
-Yeah, nice.
[Noel] Hoping to blossom
after a disappointing technical,
Andy's isomalt tree will be
sheltering layers of chocolate cake,
almond dacquoise and banana caramel.
-Like a banoffee?
-It's a banoffee pie.
-Without realising, it is a banoffee pie.
-[Noel] Nothing wrong with that.
While Andy may not have realised
the similarities…
I love banoffee pie.
You can't really call it baking.
It's one of the first things
I learnt how to make.
[Alison] …Sumayah is very conscious
of the inspiration
behind her caramel mousse cake.
My two caramel elements are gonna be
a caramelised banana sponge cake
and a caramelised date molasses mousse.
Oh, yeah, there's three actually.
And a banana pecan fudge.
[Alison] Alongside her caramel,
Sumayah is planning to top
some of her favourite flavours
with decoration inspired
by one of her favourite artists.
The whole overall decoration's inspired
by this glass artist called Dale Chihuly,
who makes these really cool
sculptures and chandeliers.
-It looks like one of your necklaces.
-Yeah.
Nice idea. Yeah.
I wanna do well because
I was disappointed in my signature.
-[Paul] Good luck.
-Thanks.
[Georgie] I gotta get my sponge
in the oven.
[Dylan] I need to bake it.
I need time to get it cool.
So 180.
[Noel] With the sponges going in…
[Andy] This'll go in for 35 minutes.
…to mousse caramels cooling…
I'll transfer it to a heatproof bowl
and leave it to cool.
[Alison] …it's time for the second batch
of caramel for their other elements.
So I'm now starting the caramel insert.
This will be the banana caramel.
[Alison] And with so many layers
to contend with,
the bakers need them to set quickly.
I put gelatine in because it need set.
Don't wanna put in too much,
otherwise it will ruin the set.
I've got to make hazelnut praline
and I'm trying to make honeycomb.
Got some golden syrup and sugar in there.
I dedicate my cake to my colleague Meg,
who's holding the fort for me.
This is her favourite.
[Alison] Gill has adapted
her popular sticky toffee recipe
to include caramel mousse
and a decorative trio of praline shards,
caramel drip and honeycomb.
[Noel] Remember buying honeycomb
at school?
-Dentists will hate this.
-It was like… [groans]
-Fillings just flying out everywhere.
-Filling again, Mum.
-Our generation.
-That's it.
How we've got any teeth left,
I'll never know.
Mine are made of Wispas.
As Gill dedicates her cake to a workmate,
Nelly also has someone special in mind.
My husband is my inspiration
because he always believe in me,
and I don't.
And he think I'm the most amazing woman,
I hope it looks nice
because that will be disastrous
if it doesn't look nice
because it's dedicated for him.
[Noel] Nelly will be
sandwiching two mousses
between a toffee chocolate sponge,
and after two underwhelming challenges,
is hoping to do both herself
and her husband proud.
He's best husband you can imagine.
-[Alison] Really?
-Yeah.
How did you meet your husband?
It wasn't romantic.
-I met him…
-Where did you meet?
Kebab shop.
[both laughing]
-Did you?
-Yeah.
-A kebab shop?
What's wrong with that?
-That's romantic, man.
-Yeah.
Everyone loves a kebab.
So this is the cream for my mousse.
[Dylan] I want soft peaks.
We're getting to the crucial part,
bringing all the mousse together.
[Alison] Creating a light
and fluffy caramel mousse
is a delicate operation.
I'm gonna whisk some caramel into it.
[Alison] If not properly incorporated,
it will form lumps and an uneven texture.
Just folding this mousse through now.
Just trying to keep it airy.
[Noel] And if the caramel
hasn't cooled enough,
it will melt the cream.
That's the best temperature. It's perfect.
Why are you always
putting caramel in jugs?
-I throw jugs on the floor.
-You're not having it.
-I'll stand here. [laughs]
-No.
No. Go away.
This is important.
I'm replacing the water in the caramel
with espresso.
[Noel] Mike has opted to give
his caramel mousse a caffeine kick.
The little cinema
that Matt and I go to in Bath,
they do a popcorn salted
caramel espresso martini.
It's my favourite drink.
-So it's inspired by that.
-It sounds great.
-Coffee and caramel work well together.
-They're wonderful.
-I'm glad.
-I love you're making popcorn.
You'll get the smell of a cinema
when we pop it.
[Noel] Popcorn spikes will protrude
from praline mascarpone
atop Mike's cocktail-inspired cake
of coffee sponge
and coffee caramel mousse.
Erm, I've split my cream.
It's totally split.
Let's just start all of that again.
[Alison] As Mike remakes his mousse…
It's a mousse cake.
I can't afford not to remake this.
…not for the first time this week…
The caramel's hot, cream's cold.
Nothing's working.
…Illiyin is having caramel complications.
It's just splitting. It's split, my cream.
I've to make the caramel again.
I need that mousse in the fridge.
If I can't get it done,
it can't go in. [exhales]
[Noel] Illiyin's caramel mousse
and white chocolate mousse
are to be paired with a pistachio ganache
and feuilletine
before being crowned with an isomalt tiara
and gold pistachio jewels.
My caramel's not working.
Come here.
Come give me a hug. It's all right.
We can get through this.
How can I pick you back up?
-Shall we have a dance?
-Let's not dance.
-Shall we have a sing?
-No.
-Got loads of time.
-Yeah.
-Four and a half hours.
-I don't have four and a half hours now.
Well, no, you don't.
This reminds me,
bakers, you are halfway through.
[vocalises]
But once this caramel's done,
that'll be it.
Don't get upset. It is what it is. Yeah?
Think it's done.
Yeah, it's done.
Yeah, okay, it's coming out now.
It's not burned. Don't worry.
[Noel] With sponges and mousses
chilling before assembly…
[Christiaan] Got your baked elements,
your cold elements.
Then it all needs to cool and set.
…the bakers can make
their additional elements
to complement their caramel.
This is the feuilletine.
It's what all the pastry chefs are doing,
adding this into their pastries
and entremés, so that's what I'm doing.
[Dylan] This is my lemon gel.
I'm using some Amalfi lemons
because they don't have
as much bitterness in the pith.
At the Amalfi Coast, they took one from
a tree, cut it up, and gave me one to eat.
It was like eating a lemon Haribo.
They're so good. Unbelievable.
[Alison] Dylan's lemon gel
will sit inside an isomalt lemon
with a liquid honey caramel
and Greek yoghurt mousse,
and in his cake
between a set honey caramel
and ginger soaked almond sponge,
giving a flavour profile
of lemon, honey and ginger.
Is this for people with colds?
I have a cold right now.
Yeah, so I thought it was pretty good.
Looks like it's got some lemon in it.
Yeah. I really wanted
the lemon to be zippy.
As opposed to Bungle.
-I don't get that joke.
-It's for the older people.
Yeah. Okay. [laughs]
I think it sounds wonderfully ambitious,
but I have faith you'll pull it off.
-Thanks.
-It's very you.
-Yeah? Cool. Wicked.
-I think so.
[Alison] While Dylan
uses lemons from Italy…
I'm just making the lime gelée.
…Christiaan is using limes
from his garden.
I got some lemon trees from Italy.
Then in the garden centre,
I saw a lime tree,
so we've got a little lime tree.
It's really cute.
[Noel] His lime jelly in a caramel insert
will sit within his two mousses
on a shortbread base,
all beneath a tropical beach
and large isomalt wave.
Coconut and lime go well together,
so it's a nicely balanced flavour.
An almond crunch on the bottom.
Get this ready.
[Alison] With all elements
on course for assembly…
This is my pecan banana fudge.
I think that's done.
…Illiyin and Mike need
to successfully produce a caramel mousse.
I finally managed to get some type
of caramel mousse. [laughs]
It's going in
'cause I'm not doing anything else.
I've just checked my mousse
and it has definitely split.
I don't have time to make it again
but it's really not a good thing
that the caramel mousse
of my caramel mousse cake is really bad.
Babes, can you sort me out?
What's going on?
[Noel laughing]
No no. No, no, I don't want it there.
Bakers, you have one hour left.
Do it at the back.
-All right.
-At the back.
[Dylan] I can start
getting it all together.
[Nelly] My mousse is set.
Now try to put it in the centre.
It's all right, we got it.
We there? We there?
Oh, God. It's really bad.
Mousse cakes don't need much cake.
[Noel] With the final layers being added…
[Georgie] I put the layers in.
This is a bit of excess mousse to seal it.
And go back in.
…and all elements going in to chill…
In the fridge, put our fingers together
and hope it sets.
[Alison] …the bakers can now
fully concentrate
on their spectacular sugarwork decoration.
[Georgie] This is isomalt.
So it's a form of caramel.
I'm gonna make a rose out of this.
So I'm just making random isomalt pieces
and then I'm gonna, like, conjoin each one
into little, like, arrangements.
-What's this?
-This is my tree.
That'll look beautiful.
I used to be able to talk to trees
when I was young.
-Did ya?
-I didn't like what they were saying.
[Dylan] I want to make sure
the lemon looks good. Then I'll be happy.
-[Alison] I love this popcorn machine.
-It's so tasty.
[Alison] It really is.
These even taste good
with nothing on them at all.
Good. But I want sugar and butter.
-I'm about to cover it in caramel, so…
-Are ya? Yeah, you are.
-[laughs]
-Yeah.
Making waves as I always do. [laughs]
I mean, what's a showstopper
without a bit drama?
[Illiyin] This crown's for Prue.
You know what,
she says much harsher things than Paul.
-In a nice voice.
-But she's so posh, you don't notice.
-Then later on you go…
-"That is utterly disgusting."
"Oh, my God, she lacerated me."
"Not one for calories."
And you're like, "Aah!"
[Illiyin] She's one in a million.
I've watched you cover peanuts
in gold dust.
They're pistachios.
-They're actually pistachios.
-This is time I'll never get back.
[laughing]
Bye.
Bakers, you have ten minutes left.
[Mike] Right, let's get the cake out.
[Georgie] Ugh, this is frustrating.
[Andy] It'll be all right.
It's gonna come out in one.
Come on.
Oh, no, I've just cracked it a bit.
[blows raspberry, exhales]
How you doing, Mike? Do you need a hand?
Maybe a round of applause. [laughs]
-More.
-Thank you.
[Georgie] It's bumpy.
Just gonna get the glaze on.
[Sumayah] My mirror glaze is quite thick
but I can't undo it now.
Look at this. It's lovely.
Is this for your showstopper
or have you lost your mind?
I've just lost my mind.
My husband said, "Don't put too much."
Just make it simple.
[Christiaan] Sea creatures
that are kind of washing up.
[Sumayah] I'm gonna make a nice little
arrangement on the side of my cake.
[Gill] Feels like I'm doing
a giant caramel jigsaw puzzle.
I'll just stick my lemon on top.
[Illiyin] How long have we got left?
Bakers, you've got one minute left.
Oh, my God, I'm so shaky.
[Andy] The apple in that
is flipping fantastic.
I think it is gonna look okay.
Just don't taste it.
[Georgie] Really happy with the rose.
I love it.
[Christiaan] Gonna get
my crashing wave on.
[Gill, singsong] Please stay up.
Bakers, your time is up.
Please step away
from your caramel mousse cakes.
Looks good. I'm happy,
I actually am. That looks nice.
-[Illiyin] That looks so good.
-[Gill] I never want to see caramel again.
[laughs]
[jaunty classical music playing]
[Alison] It's judgement time
for the bakers' caramel mousse cakes.
Nelly, would you like to bring up
your showstopper?
[jaunty classical music playing]
It's very elegant. It's lovely.
[Paul] It looks very professional.
-Look at that.
-[Paul] It looks good. It's so neat.
I think the inside looks
just as elegant as the outside.
[Nelly] Let's try the taste.
[Prue] I think it's delicious.
The flavour's so satisfying and so lovely
and make your mouth water.
-Toffee?
-Yeah.
Almost comes across as being coffee-like,
but it's beautiful.
-If you want coffee, it's coffee.
-Yeah.
-I agree with you.
-The white chocolate mousse is delicious.
It pours over your mouth
and that's perfect for this.
-Well done. Yeah, really.
-Oh, thank you.
[jaunty classical music playing]
Looks great. I love the wave.
I love the decoration, it's very elegant.
Great-looking cake.
That's one thick layer of caramel.
I like the sharpness.
-Is that the lime jelly?
-Yeah.
It's got a hell of a kick to it.
It works beautifully.
[Prue] The lime jelly is just wonderful
and the caramel mousse is perfect.
[Paul] If it was a gooey caramel
that would've been delicious.
-Thank you, Christiaan.
-Thank you very much.
[jaunty classical music playing]
-An isomalt explosion.
-Sugarwork. Yeah.
I like the décor, I like the colour
but, erm, I see a problem.
-Yeah.
-Too much gelatine.
-[Paul] Yeah. That's like rubber.
-Yeah. Mmm.
It's disappointing,
'cause the textures are wrong.
Okay.
The date-molasses mix
is too soft and gloopy.
The cake is a bit stodgy.
Is it? Oh.
If it was more mousse, you'd have
got that lightness to balance it.
You needed to really keep
all those layers much, much thinner
and celebrate the mousse more.
Yeah.
[dramatic classical music playing]
[Paul] It looks nice.
I'm not sure about the crown.
-[Prue] The ramming it in.
-[Paul] Yeah. The ramming it in.
It's not as neat as it could be.
-I think you needed a bigger sponge layer.
-Yeah.
The pistachio just sits there
and doesn't do anything.
Everything else works together.
The mousse is particularly good.
But the whole thing,
I think it could've been neater.
-Thank you.
[bright classical music playing]
[chuckles]
-Go on, it's wonderful.
-I love it. It's brilliant.
I think the design is fantastic.
It looks lovely.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Let's open it up.
[snickers]
[Paul] Ho-ho-ho-ho-ho!
-[Andy] Timber.
-[Alison snickers]
It's a lovely, light mousse,
really soft and delicious.
I think you could've left
the dacquoise out.
I think it tastes amazing.
I'll be honest with you.
-Really?
-The banana level is perfect.
The mousse is perfectly set.
It's just that dacquoise layer
has gone too soggy.
The decoration is
apple-flavoured candyfloss.
-[Paul] The apple comes through nicely.
-Doesn't it?
It is truly horrible, that flavour…
[all laughing]
But I tell you what, I'll forgive it all
because that is so good.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] Well done.
[serene classical music playing]
That's definitely a caramel cake,
you can see that.
-[laughs] I'm not subtle, am I?
-No.
I like the look of it.
I think it's quite fun.
[Prue] I like that you've stuck
to the caramel colour.
It really advertises what it is.
The overall flavour is definitely
a sticky toffee pudding.
I think your mousse
is a little bit too thick.
But great flavours.
-For me it's too sweet, the mousse.
-Okay.
But actually, I like the spice.
It lifts it.
-Overall, like it, yeah. Thank you.
-Yay.
[gentle classical music playing]
[Paul] It's a great festive cake.
It does look like a Christmas cake.
[chuckles] I love making Christmas cake.
If I was buying this in a shop
and I asked for a mousse cake,
I'd think "Where's the mousse?"
A mousse cake has to be
half mousse at least.
It would've been nice to have
something to finish off round the outside.
-Yeah.
-What a lovely tiramisu cake it is.
-[giggles]
-Are we going to risk some popcorn?
Please do,
that's my favourite thing I've ever made.
-[Paul] Is it?
-Yeah.
-Even for me, that's really sweet.
-[Mike laughs]
[Prue] For me it's all too sweet.
[Paul] But I like the overall flavour.
It reminds me of tiramisu,
and for that it's sort of okay.
-I'll take that. Thanks.
-[Paul laughs]
[dramatic classical music playing]
Well, it certainly looks very professional
and eye-catching, I'd say.
I do think it's a bit small.
We asked for something impressive
for a gathering.
[Paul] It could've been a bit bigger.
I'm impressed the feuilletine stayed crisp
and the cake is very good.
Texture's lovely, the flavours are there.
It's certainly caramel.
And you do get the caramel.
That feuilletine takes over
the whole thing.
Because it's small, it's made more impact.
If it was bigger and you kept
the same thickness, it would've been fine.
The idea's there.
-It's a good starter.
-[Georgie] Yeah.
-I'd like to see the next one.
-Yeah. Okay.
I don't think it's gonna be made again.
-[all laughing]
-[Paul] Thank you very much, Georgie.
Okay. Thanks.
[tense classical music playing]
That's pretty.
Shame it didn't hold together.
You can see what you were going for.
-Quite small.
-[Dylan] You think?
Yeah. 'Cause you've gotta pack a lot
into something that's that small.
And it's amazingly packed with flavour.
Bloody hell, Dylan. Right there, innit?
Happy to be punched
in the face by a lemon.
-[Dylan] Yeah?
-Your flavours are amazing.
You've come on leaps and bounds
with your flavour.
I would even say you're the flavour king
this year at the moment.
-Cheers.
-You're clever with your flavours.
Delicate as well, in the way you bake,
which is unusual to get the two together.
-Well done.
-Cheers. Thank you.
"Flavour king" is cool.
I'm happy with that.
It's one of my favourite things
I've made, visually,
so I'm annoyed about the crack.
It wasn't amazing, so I don't know
where I stand with it, really.
They didn't pick up on my split mousse.
They had a lot of the mascarpone,
but they said I made a tiramisu,
not a mousse cake.
They had nothing to say about my taste
that was good, so I know I'm going home.
Yeah. [laughs]
[sheep bleating]
[Noel] This is quite tricky.
The showstoppers were okay
but weren't brilliant.
It makes judging really difficult
to see who's gonna go home.
You both spoke about Nelly's
in a way that was almost…
I think Nelly saved herself.
Nelly's not going home.
-[Noel] Christiaan's was good.
-Yeah, it tasted lovely.
But you couldn't have sold that with
a solid layer of caramel on the bottom.
You could sell this for Mike?
You could sell that
but not as a mousse cake.
-As Paul said, it was a tiramisu.
-Yeah.
It just had a smear of mousse
in between the layers.
Someone who normally bakes
really, really well is Sumayah.
-It looked incredible.
-I thought it was going to be fantastic.
You were disappointed with that.
Unfortunately, neither the texture
nor the flavour were any good.
But Dylan's cake tasted wonderful,
as it normally has.
As did his signature.
His showstopper was amazing, but cracked.
So he's nearly there,
but I would still put him in line
for Star Baker along with Georgie
because Georgie won the technical
and did well
with those little peanut fingers.
So, at the moment, I would say in line
for Star Baker is either Dylan or Georgie.
And going home, between Sumayah and Mike.
It's gonna create a stir either way,
but we've gotta look at it
over the three challenges
and see who we think
is gonna do better going forward.
You can make me Star Baker
and send Noel home.
Can I flip it round?
Noel, you're Star Baker.
You're going home.
[laughs] Can I take that fudge?
-Yeah.
-[all laughing]
[tense music playing]
Well done, bakers,
for getting through Caramel Week.
You've done so, so well.
Now, as the caramel queen,
I have the wonderful job
of announcing Star Baker this week.
So the Star Baker this week is…
Georgie.
-[gasps] Yes.
-[all cheering]
Shut up.
[Mike] Oh, well done.
By a thread, probably.
Unfortunately, that leaves me
with the real horrible job.
This was very close as well.
But the person
who's leaving us this week is…
Mike.
[whispers] Sorry.
[sad music playing]
[Mike] I feel it was my time to go.
I'm just this little farmer
who does some baking in the kitchen
and everyone else is incredible.
I feel like the quality
of what everyone else is doing
is just breathtaking.
Yeah, I'm just gonna miss everyone.
[whispers] Oh, God.
I never wanna bake again.
I'll miss you guys, that's why I'm sad.
[laughter]
One thing my mum said to me was,
"Don't cry." [laughs]
-[Sumayah chuckles]
-Bit better next week.
Yeah, hopefully.
I'm really happy,
but sad at the same time.
Mike was genuinely the heart of the group.
He's a good friend as well.
[Mike] You can bake things
that I couldn't even dream of.
It was really close
between Sumayah and Mike.
And Sumayah just pipped him
on two of the three challenges.
It's a shame.
He's a great guy and a fantastic baker.
I look forward to visiting his farm shop.
[Sumayah] Georgie, well done. Well done.
[Christiaan] So good.
Star Baker's just crazy.
I didn't think I was gonna do it,
but it does mean a lot.
I've always been self-conscious
about my baking.
Need to get more confidence in myself,
and it just shows I can do it.
[closing theme music playing]